# Competition

Twetch (https://twetch.com) is a pay-to-earn social platform like twitter, but content creators can earn income from creating content (or minting content) in the form of NFTs. This rewarding system will keep the social platform interactive at the same time as it is kept peer to peer. This is similar to our app in the way that it rewards its content creators, if the route to launch a token is confirmed. However, Twetch is an on-chain social network, which means that for each post a user creates, a gas fee must be spent in order to bring the post onto the network. This is unfeasible in the long term, since users do not wish to spend money when interacting with others, by which Vectre allows for.  

Aether (https://getaether.net/ ) is also a decentralized forum, more similar to Reddit, in which people can join/create different communities, post text-based contents in the communities, and like/dislike others’ posts. There is no centralized server that stores the data/runs the app, where once again, users are completely peer to peer. Users can also vote on moderators that manage the community, which allows the communities to be run much more democratically. However, Aether lacks the Non-Fungible Token (NFT) integration by which Vectre allows for and uniquely identifies itself by. Additionally, Aether’s lack of a personal feed also creates a more isolated experience, by which community is one of Vectre’s key principles. 

Mastodon (https://joinmastodon.org/) is another decentralized social network, however focuses its model based upon privacy, such that it is a community-owned, ad-free social network. Mastodon runs solely on donations. Mastodon, however, does not create any focus upon web3 communities, and does not allow for community leaders to be able to effectively communicate with their members. The lack of NFT integration, such as an NFT dashboard and verified ownership are key features of Vectre that Mastodon lacks. 

Twitter (https://twitter.com/) is a popular social network which allows users to create tweets to quickly share their thoughts and interact with others sharing similar interests. Twitter was the first main stream social media network to incorporate NFT integration, which can be activated once users pay for their premium service, Twitter Blue. Vectre aims to provide NFT verification for all NFTs a user possesses, by incorporating an NFT showcase/dashboard. Twitter also fundamentally lacks a community management systems, for which Vectre accounts for.  

The key difference between these social platforms and Vectre is that these social platforms are truly decentralized, while being able to perform certain functionalities. Vectre on the other hand, is a web3 social platform, by which we provide a space for web3 communities to thrive and shape the direction of the project’s they support and are a part of. 

Vectre will be the bridge for all things web3, allowing for effective community management, as well as the ability for users to network and engage with members of the same community and beyond. Vectre hopes to provide an immersive Web3 experience that allows users to create and join the communities like in Twetch, but can vote on the rules in that community like in Aether, but provide additional features such as NFT dashboards and true digital asset verification. Vectre provides fertile soil for web3 communities to thrive by providing a platform by which community guidelines can be set through a proposal voting system, where members with verified NFTs are able to vote to shape the future of their community.
